---
layout: post
title: Wow, I'm actually doing this
---

# How to Play

Simply, the referee describes a situation, and you tell what your character would do in that context. The referee might ask you to roll a D20 and add a number from your character sheet to the result. If the total is 16 or above, your character succeeds what they intended to do. Either way, the referee describes the new situation, and so on.

## Creating a Character

Roll 3D6 six times, halve the results and note them rounded down. These are, in order, your stats: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom and Charisma.

- Your HP is equal to your Constitution.
- Your Movement equals to your Strength

Roll or choose a class. Add the class’s starting equipment and its first template abilities to your character sheet.

## Stats & Skills

**HP** (or Hit Points) is the amount of hits you can take before getting wounded.

**Movement** might be for climbing, jumping, or rolled against a monster’s movement when trying to escape it. Failure means the battle has simply moved to another room.

**Armor** is the amount of damage you ignore on each attack.

A **Skill** can be anything (flower arrangement, rolling dices, etc) and you can replace your stat with your Skill for any roll that would make sense. You can have as many Skills as your Intelligence.

## Rolling

When the referee tells you to roll one stat (Strength, when climbing a cliff for example), roll a D20, add your stat, and, if the total is higher than 15, you succeed. 

A referee should only call for a roll when both success and failure are interesting. Bashing a door, for example, might take moments on a success, and 10 minutes on a failure, attracting monsters to the noise.

A contested roll is when the referee rolls using the monster’s stats and you have to roll higher.

Rolling with advantage means you roll twice and choose the best. Disadvantage is the opposite.

## Combat

**Turn Order:** Roll Wisdom. If you succeed you act before the monsters. Players and monsters that surprised their enemies have a free turn before the battle starts.

**Your Turn:** On your turn, your character can move nearby, talk, shout, drop an object or themselves, and do any other one action, which can be moving further.

**Attacking:** To attack, roll Strength (or Dexterity for ranged weapons). The monster will roll Dexterity. You hit if you roll higher. 

When you hit, roll your weapon’s damage and the referee subtracts it from the target’s HP. Reducing a monster’s HP to 0 kills it. 

Rolling 20 on attack means do double damage. Rolling 20 on dodge means you get a free attack.

**Dying:** Every point of damage you take below 0 HP counts as a Wound. When you gain a wound, you fall unconscious and start dying. Each wound reduces your maximum HP by 1, down to 0.

When you are dying, you must roll Constitution on each of your turns. On a roll of 1, your character dies. On a failure, you gain 1 Wound. On a success, nothing changes. On a roll of 20 or on result of 24 or higher, you stabilize and stop dying. If you reach 10 wounds, you die.

Up to two allies can roll Intelligence to stabilize you. Expanding bandages gives a bonus of 2 on that roll. Stabilizing does not remove wounds.

**Healing:** A 1 hour break heals your HP to half its current maximum.

A 8 hours rest heals all HP and stat losses and consumes 1 ration for the team.

Medical care heals all Wounds. Medical care requires to play another character for 1 session and for the wounded character to spend this time in a safe space with healers. 

## Inventory

You have as many inventory slots as twice your strength. Small items like potions and daggers can be stacked in packs of 3. Ammunition, in stacks of 12. Each item above your limit lowers your Dexterity by 1.

It takes an action to retrieve an item, unless it is in your first 3 slots.

## Equipment

### **Melee Weapons:**
**Improvised (wine bottle, chair)**
1D4 damage, can be throw

**Light (dagger, hatchet)**
1D6 damage, can be thrown

**Medium (sword, axe)**
1D8 damage, 1D10 with two hands

**Heavy (greatsword, greataxe)**
1D12 damage, needs two hands

**Pole (spear, halberd)**
1D8 damage, needs two hands
can attack from behind other creatures

### **Ranged Weapons:**
**Light (darts)**
1 damage, can attack twice

**Medium (sling)**
1D4 damage

**Heavy (bow)**
1D6 damage, needs two hands

**Mechanical (crossbow, musket)**
1D12 damage, needs two hands
must take one action to recharge

**Armor:** All armors reduce damage by 2, but lower your dexterity by 1 (down to 1). You can stack 3 pieces of armors. 

## Leveling Up

In your adventures you will find treasures. By spending 4 treasures carousing, a character can level up. You gain +2 HP and you can select a new class template (up to 4 total). 

Choose a stat. Roll 1D6+1D4. If the result is higher, your stat increase by 1.

After level 4, you get 1 Mastery point instead of any template or bonus.

Mastery: You gain a Mastery point when you level up beyond level 4 or bring a skill or a stat to 10. Once per day, you can spend Mastery points to change the result of a roll affecting an adjacent ally at 1:1.

In your adventures you will find treasures. By spending 4 treasures carousing, a character can level up. You gain +2 HP and you can select a new class template (up to 4 total). 

Choose a stat. Roll 1D6+1D4. If the result is higher, your stat increase by 1.

After level 4, you get 1 Mastery point instead of any template or bonus.

**Mastery:** You gain a Mastery point when you level up beyond level 4 or bring a skill or a stat to 10. Once per day, you can spend Mastery points to change the result of a roll affecting an adjacent ally at 1:1.
