---
layout: post
tags: monster undead  rocky
permalink: /monsters/wraith
title: Wraith
---

Ghostly spirit of barred from afterlife because of their corruption. An undead.

Imagine black, jawless skull. From it, heavy, eery fog pours out. Ornate discolored torn robes and scarves dangle from it like inhabited by an invisible body. A cruel, silverd dagger peaks from a sleave, clenched by bony fingers.

**HD:** 4  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** elite <br>
**Movement:** fast (hover) <br>
**Morale:** reckless <br>

As an undead creature, the wraith does not starve to death, breathe, sleep or tire and cant be poisoned. As an ethereal creature, it is immune to damage from a nonmagical source, as well as grapples and petrification. However, direct sunlight makes it lose all resistances and immunities (Silver weapons similarly ignore their resistances). Additionaly, it sees in the dark.

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Forbidden curses.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Cursed Silver Dagger</ins>. The wraith makes a melee attack (1D6). On a hit, the creature is cursed.

<ins>Drain Life</ins>. A nearby wounded creature must make a save or take damage (1D8) and lose 2 point of Constitution. For a brief moments, it sees through the veil to the underworld.

<ins>Spellcasting (2)</ins>. *Conjure Fog, One Random [Spell](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/spells)*

<ins>Unsettle the Dead</ins>. A specter rises from a nearby dead body and serves the wraith.
 
<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 wraith & 1D6 specters
1. **Lair:** The cursed tomb of a disgraced hero, filled with 1D4 treasures, 1D4 of which are cursed. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** All lights are snuffed by a cold wind.
1. **Spoor:** A dead body, murdered in cold blood. Has 1 valuable thing on it. Will rise as a specter in 1D4 minutes.
1. **Tracks:** Where the bone-chilling wind goes.
1. **Trace:** [rumor] Tales of a cursed artefact of power, once held by the kings of old.
1. **Trace:** Temperature colder than normal.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Retrieve a powerful artefact which would allow it or its master to rule the world.
1. Is mad, haunting its crypt, babbling about enemies that are long dead.
1. Murder, as all life is an insult. Each moonless night.
1. Claim a castle or a keep for itself.
1. Pursue its forbidden, dangerous studies. Recreate its decadant life with a court of specters.
1. Train an apprentice in the dark arts, so it can achieve what it couldnt in life. 


</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Summoning the Spirit</summary>

If you know the spell [Occult Consultation](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/13/occult-consultation/), you can alter it in such way for a minimum of 4 Spell Dices:

**Summon Wraith** <br>
R: Touch D: Sigil

When you cast this spell, you must name an humanoid who died evil and corrupted and claimed some sort of power during its lifetime. It appears before you in a cloud of drak smoke, hostile and ready to kill you, but will submit if you own a [great treasure](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#treasures) that belonged to it in its life. If you were ever to lose the treasure, the wraith would disapear and drag you to the underworld with it.
</details>

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
DnD's [wraith](http://adnd.geoshitties.installgentoo.com/mm/wraith.html) is not much more than a glorified specter, and does not translate much into the amazingness that are Tolkien's. I also really love the version (and illustration!) found in Michael Prescott's [Trilemma Adventure Bestiary](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/315827/Trilemma-Adventures-Bestiary-B-X). Now wraiths can wield cursed weapons and cast spells if you want.
</details>
