---
layout: post
tags: monster aberration  jungle city
permalink: /monsters/choker
title: Choker
---

Rubbery humanoid stranglers. An aberration.

Imagine a rubbery, hairless, small human that would have been stretched to normal size. Has rows of sharp teeth and toothed tentacles instead of feet and hands.

It is animalistic, living to hunt and breed. It hates loud noises and being seen.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** small <br>
**Stats:** suprisingly strong, agile, feral <br>
**Movement:** average, climb fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

As an aberration, the choker *resists mind attacks* and *does not die* unless its killer succeeds a save vs fear. Additionally, the choker can see in the dark and squeeze in openings as small as 4 square inches. It can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down, without making a check. Hidden chokers are very hard to spot.

If a choker hears loud noises, it must save against fear.

**Attacks:**  Each round, the choker can perform one of these actions:

<ins>Choke.</ins> The choker makes a melee attack (1D4) and grapples a creature at the throat on a hit. Only one creature can be choked at a time. A choking creature is mute and takes (1D4) damage at the end of each of its turns.

<ins>Whip.</ins> The choker makes a melee attack (1D4) against a creature or an object nearby. The choker is pulled to it.

<ins>Aberrant Quickness (recharge 2/6).</ins> The choker moves twice as fast as normal and cannot be chased this turn. The choker may attempt to grapple a target as it moves. 

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D6 chokers.
1. **Lair:** A narrow passageway with narrow slits in its walls and ceiling. It’s very dark.<br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** You hear a vermin creature yelp as it is being killed out of your sight.
1. **Spoor:** A miner’s bag, abandoned.
1. **Tracks:** Minced goblin meat, scattered.
1. **Trace:** [rumor] Clang your shield as you pass narrow tunnels.
1. **Trace:** A (broken) gong at the entrance of a tunnel.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Mutations</summary>

Your studies of the aberration has changed you in horrible, gruesome ways: Your bones become rubbery in your ...
 ...

1. ... legs. Standing up is difficult, but you can tie yourself to things.
1. ... neck. You can rotate it 360°.
1. ... arms. Your reach increases by 5 ft. 
1. ... fingers. Your grasp in unbreakable.
1. ... chest. You can squeeze in 1 square foot.
1. ... roll again. You know the [spell word](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/magic-user#spell-words) *Stretch* and gain one spell dice.
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
I love chokers. I think the 2e [version](http://adnd.geoshitties.installgentoo.com/mm/choker.html) has the best illustration. And I really love Junji Ito's "The Enigma of Amigara Fault" in Gyo as a freaky origin story/scenario idea.
</details>

