---
layout: post
tags: monster beast  desert rocky jungle mountain plains
permalink: /monsters/basilisk
title: Basilisk
---

Lumbering lizard with a petrifying gaze. A beast.

A large eight legged lizard with a spine of quills and a square pupil. Basilisks are not aware of their power and eat whatever they petrify.

**HD:** 5  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as chain <br>
**Size:** large <br>
**Stats:** strong, sturdy, dumb and feral <br>
**Movement:** slow <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

The basilisk cannot see very well but its smell is very powerful, allowing it to see close creatures in the dark.

If the basilisk focuses its gaze on a creature for one round, the target’s limbs become heavy, slow, and gray. They must save or be functionally [grappled](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions). This effect ends immediately if the basilisk looks away. If the basilisk stares at a target for a second round, they must save again or be petrified. If they pass, they are still rooted in place (as above). The effect has a short range. More than one target can be affected, but they must be very close together.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite</ins>. The basilisk makes a melee attack (1D6). A grappled target takes extra poison damage (1D6) on a hit, a petrified one, (2D6).

<ins>Frantic Charge</ins>. The basilisk runs in a straight line and makes an attack (1D6) against one target. A surprised target must save vs fear. 

<ins>Tail Swipe</ins>. While focusing on another creature, the basilisk smashes a creature behind it with its tail (1D6).

<ins>Trash</ins>. Each adjacent creatures must dodge or take damage (1D6) and be knocked prone.

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 basilisk.
1. **Lair:** A petrified creatures garden with 1D4 sleeping basilisks. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Hissing and a strange feeling of numbness.
1. **Spoor:** Bleeding statue, a bite taken out of it.
1. **Tracks:** The tracks of two big lizards walking exactly on the same path.
1. **Trace:** Petrified vermin. 
1. **Trace:** Petrified person.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
Basilisk meat is toxic, but its leather is sturdy, its venom is deadly, but its eyes are the real prize: one can walk through a basilisk’s eye straight to the plane of earth.

A basilisk can be trained from birth to be a mount.

<span class="alchemy">**Basilisk Eye**. Tiny, closed portal to the elemental plane of earth.</span>

<span class="alchemy">**Basilisk Venom.** Save or be poisoned, save again each day to cure. Fail 4 saves and die. Drips through stone and cures petrification.</span>
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>
In local cultures the basilisk is a symbol of ...

1. Death
1. Drought
1. Earth Element
1. Seduction
1. Time
1. Sacred 
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
A DnD classic that is suprisingly boring to fight compared to the expectations. Skerples from Coins & Scrolls made an amazing version of it in [the Tomb of the Serpent Kings](https://coinsandscrolls.blogspot.com/2017/06/osr-tomb-of-serpent-kings-megapost.html), which is incidently what inspired me to do this whole project. — SaltyGoo
</details>
