---
layout: post
tags: monster celestial lesser city cursed holy magical
permalink: /monsters/imp
title: Imp
---

Tiny tempting devil with a stinger. A celestial.

Imagine a tiny red humanoid with bat wings, a barbed tail and the face like a commedia dell’arte mask.

It exists to tell secrets with dire consequences to mortals, with the end goal they will make a pact with a more powerful devil to avoid the consequences.

**HD:** 0  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** tiny <br>
**Stats:** weak yet agile, underplaying its intelligence  <br>
**Movement:** average, fly fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

As a celestial being, the Imp *resists everything* and is *immune to curses*. Additionally, the Imp can *see in the dark* and communicates through *telepathy*.

Whenever a creature the imp can see rolls a fumble, the Imp grows.  It gains 1 HD, 1 Spell Dice, and increases its damage by one dice size.  It also loses the ability to fly and gains the [Maleficence](/2020/11/13/maleficence/) spell.  These changes last until the imp rolls a fumble.

**Non-Combat Magic**
Thaumaturgy, Minor Diabolism

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Platinum Barbed Glaive.</ins> The barbazu makes a melee attack (1D8) with reach. A living creature must then save or take (1D4) nonlethal damage at the beginning of its turn. The effect can be ended with a successful medicine check or any other healing.

<ins>Stinger.</ins> The imp makes one melee attack (1D2) and the target must save or be poisoned by imp venom.

<ins>Invisibility./ins> The imp becomes invisible until its concentration breaks.

<ins>Shapechange.</ins> The imp transforms into a rat, raven or spider. Its stinger attack becomes a bite attack.

<span class="alchemy">**Imp Venom.** Poison. Save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions), save again each day to cure. Increases fumble range by 1.</span>

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1D4 imps or 1 imp swarm
1. **Lair:** A poorly attended arcane machine, owned by a spellcaster. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Impish cackling.
1. **Spoor:** A freshly made obscene tag.
1. **Tracks:** High pitched giggles.
1. **Trace:** An arcane grimoire, desecrated.
1. **Trace:** Obscene tags on magical equipment.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Celestial Pact</summary>
Evil celestials give the reward and the quest at the same time, then try to make accomplishing the quest impossible within the decided time frame. Good celestials give a quest first and the reward upon completion. The price of breaking a pact is always your soul.

**Reward:**

1. A red imp follower.
2. A spell scroll with a random spell.
3. A potion of healing.
4. The way to contact a more powerful celestial.
5. A wizard apprentice follower.
6. Tiny goat horns and the ability to cast [Bewitch](/2020/11/13/bewitch/).

**Quest:**

1. Steal a spell from an archmage.
1. Steal the plan for a magical apparatus.
2. Make a pact with a celestial.
3. Graduate first of your class from the academy.
4. Create a new, very powerful spell.
5. Ruin a wizard’s reputation.
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
Imps have an awkward position in DnD's cosmology as being clearly chaotic agents of order. I love it. I see their goal as being to push people into making bad decisions, and the concept of a bad decision as being lawful in itself. I based this version from the classic DnD imp, but added the fumble twist from [Goblin Punch](/2019/11/triggered.html).</details>
