---
layout: post
tags: monster beast arctic desert forest plains rocky 
permalink: /monsters/elk
title: Elk
---

Large antelopes. Beasts.

Elks and other similar beasts such as antelopes are herding herbivorous hoofed creatures.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** large <br>
**Stats:** strong but feral<br>
**Movement:** fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

The elk’s ability to do sharp turns allows it to ignore the difficulty of moving through natural obstacles.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Kick.</ins> The elk makes a melee attack (1D4).

<ins>Charge.</ins> If it has the space for it, the elk charges with its antlers (2D4). A target with STR below 5 falls prone.

<br>

---

<br> 

# Giant Elk

**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as leather <br>
**Size:** huge <br>
**Stats:** strong, sturdy and wise but feral<br>
**Movement:** fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

The elk’s ability to do sharp turns allows it to ignore the difficulty of moving through natural obstacles. It's wisdom allows it to understand all languages.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Kick.</ins> The elk makes a melee attack (1D8).

<ins>Charge.</ins> If it has the space for it, the elk charges with its antlers (2D8). A target with STR below 9 falls prone.

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D8 elks or 1 giant elk.
1. **Lair:** A vast, warm and peaceful clearing. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** A branch cracks.
1. **Spoor:** Still warm dung.
1. **Tracks:** Giant elk tracks among smaller ones.
1. **Trace:** Musky scratched bark.
1. **Trace:** (Giant) Antlers.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Elk meat is very prized and they are hunted for sport. Their antlers are good props. An elk can be tamed with great difficulty.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>

In local cultures this beast is a symbol of ...

1. Royalty
1. The forest
1. Fall
1. Hunting
1. Masculinity
1. Sacred 
</details>


