---
layout: post
tags: monster beast  swamp
permalink: /monsters/crab
title: Crab
---

Crabs are aquatic crustacean scavengers with pincers. A beast.

**HD:** 0  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** tiny <br>
**Stats:** weak, feral and stubborn<br>
**Movement:** slow, swim slow<br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

Crabs can climb on any surfaces, including upside down, and can breath underwater. They cant see well but detects adjacent movement.


**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pinch</ins>. The crab makes a grapple attempt.

<br>

---

# Crab Swarm


**HD:** 0 +3D4HP  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** weak, feral and stubborn<br>
**Movement:** slow, swim slow<br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

Crabs can climb on any surfaces, including upside down, and can breath underwater. They cant see well but detects adjacent movement.

In a swarm, crabs are immune to being grappled or attacked by single target spells, and resist mind and weapon damage. However, they take double damage from area of effect attacks.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pinches.</ins> The crab swarm makes a melee attack (1) using its HP as its attack stat. On a hit, the swarm is attached to the target.

<br>

---

# Giant Crab

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as chain <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** strong, dumb, curious<br>
**Movement:** average, swim average<br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

Crabs can climb on any surfaces, including upside down, and can breath underwater. They cant see well but detects nearby movement.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pinch</ins>. The crab makes a grapple attempt. On a success, the target takes 1D4 damage.

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D4 crab swarms or 1D4 giant crabs.
1. **Lair:** Sharp, sea-eroded rocks full of holes and varech. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Chitinous clicks.
1. **Spoor:** A carcass, completely eaten and cleaned.
1. **Tracks:** Sideways insectoid tracks.
1. **Trace:** A pincer. 
1. **Trace:** A seagull (or other beast) eating a crab.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Crabs are delicious. You need as many crabs as there are players, or one giant crab to make a day's ration.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>

In local cultures this beast is a symbol of ...

1. Music
1. Posturing
1. Cancer
1. Armors
1. Love
1. Sacred 
</details>
