---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid arctic desert forest plains
permalink: /monsters/centaur
title: Centaur
---

Human-horse hybrid. A humanoid.

Imagine the upper body of a human joined to the body of a horse. They shun clothes and prefer a nomadic life to the confinement of cities.

**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** large <br>
**Stats:** strong and perceptive. <br>
**Movement:** fast <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

Centaurs have exceptional endurance and very keen eyes. Because of their connection with the world of dreams, they are also resistant to charm and sleep.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pike Drag.</ins> The centaur makes one melee attack (1D6) and may move nearby, dragging the target with it on a hit.

<ins>Charge.</ins> If it has space, the centaur charges with its hooves and pike. If the target doesn’t dodge, it takes (2D6) damage and is knocked prone.

<ins>Longbow.</ins> The centaur makes one ranged attack (1D6).

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1D10 centaurs & ... (1D4)
    1. nothing
    1. 1 shaman
    1. 1 soldier or warrior
    1. roll twice
1. **Lair:** A waterhole in a pasture decorated with pennants. 50% chance that they sell exotic goods from far away. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** The sound of confident hooves.
1. **Spoor:** A campfire with only hoof tracks.
1. **Tracks:** Hooves track.
1. **Trace:** Faded pennants forming a star map.
1. **Trace:** An arrow with fletching from a foreign bird.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

You find the monster's weapons and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. 40' of rope.
1. A ration.
1. 1D8 expertly crafted arrows
1. Local herb that cures a common affliction.
1. A colorful scarf.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 Calytaur Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The ones that migrate in giant herds following star maps.
1. The raiders that live off pillaging.
1. The ones that run a hero academy.
1. The ones from the great army.
1. The ones that live in harmony with the elves.
1. The ones that are knights errant.

**Features**
1. They have no metal.
1. They spend half the year in the world of the fey.
1. They need to reach a certain destination before solstice or they turn into horses.
1. Their leader is a chevall manipulating them.
1. They are the last survivors of a fallen civilization.
1. They despise settlers.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Player Class</summary>
Play as a [centaur](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/fighter/centaur)!
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
Compared to the [5th edition](https://5e.tools/book.html#mm) version, I gave it more interactive attacks. Also, considering the contemporary association of centaurs with wisdom, I made them resistant to some fairy tricks. — SaltyGoo
</details>
