---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass arctic
permalink: /monsters/sorcerer
title: Sorcerer
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some [humanoids](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-humanoid) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. Underlined abilities are added to the attack options of the original creature. For damage, replace X with the creature's basic attack damage. — SaltyGoo* </span>

Sorcerers are innate spellcasters who can unleash powerful spells upon which they have little control. They are often magical creatures themselves that honed their powers beyond normal, or mortals bound to a specific element.
<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 sorcerer & 1D4 [elementals](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-elemental)
1. **Lair:** It would have been a normal house if it wasnt for the utter chaos. Did a tornado go through it? <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** "Zap!" and laughter.
1. **Spoor:** Sparks of magical energy and a half eaten snack.
1. **Tracks:** Trail of chaos like only somebody drunk on power would do.
1. **Trace:** Strange rainless storm faraway.
1. **Trace:** A wizard, tracking a sorcerer because of the danger they represent.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. More power!
1. Hide their powers and live a normal life.
1. Transcend to another state of being.
1. Will someone ever not bore them? Who wants to fight.
1. Revenge over those who persecuted them.
1. Just enjoy life.  
</details>

<br>

---

## Fire Trickster
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>
As fickle and fascinating as flames. Its eyes are lit with a joyful yet menacing flicker.

**Stats:** Unchanged.

The fire trickster resists fire. It can enter flames as if they were a door and come out of another flame it can see.

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Pyromancy

<ins>Scalding Ember.</ins> The sorcerer makes a ranged attack (X). One flammable object on the target catches on fire. If the attack misses, the ground nearby is ablaze for 2 turns.

<ins>Flame Twin.</ins> The sorcerer transforms a fire nearby into a copy of itself with 1 HP. This copy dissipates after 1 round without fuel.
</details>
