---
layout: post
tags: monster fey faction
permalink: /monsters/eladrin
title: Eladrin
---

An ur-elf. A fey.

Have you ever seen somebody better than you in every way? That’s an elf. Now imagine somebody better than the elf in every way.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as equipped <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** better than you in any way <br>
**Movement:** fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

*An eladrin veteran would have 3HD and inflict 1D8 damage*

As a fairie, the eladrin *resists mundane weapons and spells* and WIS must be used for attack rolls against it. However, if it touches cold iron, it loses all these abilities and spells for a round. Additionally, the eldrin can teleport to any locationn in sight.

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Enchantment, Illusion, Weather

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Fey Fencing</ins>. The eladrin makes a rapier melee attack (1D6), then teleports nearby.

<ins>Fey Accuracy</ins>. The eladrin makes a ranged bow attack with advantage(1D6), then teleports nearby.

<ins>Spellcasting (3).</ins> *Alter Self, Cure Wound, Detect Evil, Phantasmal Force.*

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D8 eladrins & 1 of them is a [dream cultist](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/cultist) of ... (roll a D8):
  1. winter fury, & 1D4 of them are [warriors](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/warrior)
  1. spring joy, & 1D4 of them are [entertainers](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/entertainer)
  1. summer court, & 1D4 of them are [soldiers](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/soldier)
  1. autumn wake, & 1D4 of them are [mages](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/mage)
  1. roll again, add a [fairy](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-fey)
  1. roll twice
3. **Lair:** Mobile tents and pavilions that walk on vine-legs. Roll 1D4: 1, winter theme; 2, spring; 3, summer; 4, fall. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Elegant music, so touching, save or cry.
4. **Spoor:** Dried flower and leave decorations from a idyllic celebration.
5. **Tracks:** Beautiful, sad music far away.
6. **Trace:** Elegant seasonal garden, off season.
7. **Trace:** Flowers singing the praises of the eladrin.

</details>

details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 Eladrin Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures (Changes every week)**
1. The ones that live the stillness of winter, cold and aloof in their halls of mirrors.
1. The ones that live the exuberance of springtime love, in perpetual romantic strolls through curated gardens.
1. The ones that live the passion of summer abundance, with music, fairs and contests every day in the summer court.
1. The ones that live the anxious last joy of autumn, feasting, and reveling in nostalgia in forested banquet halls.
1. The ones that live the dark wrath of monsoon season, in gloomy, imperious towers lush with greenery.
1. The ones that live the numbing heat of the dry season on silk barges and under vapor umbrellas.

**Features**
1. Only beauty is allowed here, lest the dream unravel.
1. An archfey is due to visit soon with its court and strange rules. An assassin is among the eladrins.
1. Isn’t it about time the eladrin invade the real world again? To educate the barbarians.
1. A new law every day, and following it is forbidden.
1. The court will migrate as the season change, perhaps in the real world for a change?
1. The dream has been corrupted long ago, this is a nightmare under the veneer of perfection.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
  
Eladrin are biologically elves untouched by the corruption of reality. Find their equipment, and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. One of the eladrin's equipment is masterwork.
1. A musical instrument.
1. Nothing.
1. A dream in a pearl.
1. Living jewelry (valueable)

By studying with the eladrin, a wizard can create a new spell with the word *Elegant*.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
The Abhir is an original DnD monster who only appeared once in [Dungeon Magazine #23](https://annarchive.com/files/Dungeon%20Magazine%20%23023.pdf). It was basically a weaker marilith clone with a darkness spell. When adapting it for my bestiary, I wanted to differentiate it from the marilith for two reasons: first, I find that monster clones cheapen both the original and the creation, and second, I always thought that the marilith looked more like a ruthless devil than a demonic embodiment of chaos. — SaltyGoo
</details>
