---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid arctic mountain city sea magical enchanted
permalink: /monsters/elf-high
title: Elf, High
---

Truly annoying elitist magical perfection. A humanoid.

Imagine perfection. You are to this creature what a chimp is to a human. It is so entrancing and graceful it seems times bends around it.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as equipped <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** always good enough<br>
**Movement:** normal <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

*An elven veteran would have 3HD and inflict 1D8 damage*

As an ex fey, the elf *resists spells*.

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Thaumaturgy

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Elven Fencing</ins>.  The high elf makes a melee attack (1D6). It has +2 armor against its target until its next turn.

<ins>Elven Accuracy</ins>. The high elf makes a ranged bow attack with advantage (1D6).

<ins>Dancing Lights.</ins> The high elf summons small orbs of light that dance around a target in sight. Negating cover and stealth for the battle.

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 2D4 high elves & 1 of them is a veteran ... (roll a D8):
  1. nothing.
  1. on a pristine mount & 1D4 of them are [soldiers](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/soldier)
  1. & 1D4 of them are [high mages](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/mage)
  1. & 1D4 of them are [bladesingers](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/soldier)
  1. & 1D4 of them are [mages](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/mage)
  1. & 1D4 of them are [entertainers](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/entertainer)
  1. riding a flying beast [beast](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-beast)
  1. roll twice
3. **Lair:** A marble tower. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** You feel self conscious about your imperfections.
4. **Spoor:** Perfect white horses / ships / flowers.
5. **Tracks:** Elegant banners on the horizon.
6. **Trace:** An ancient crystal milestone.
7. **Trace:** Elven ruins.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 High Elf Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The ones that live in cities on floating islands.
1. The ones that live in a magical fog protected towers.
1. The ones that live in oases of green  in dessicated wastelands.
1. The ones that depend on the labor of elegant constructs.
1. The ones that live under glass domes.
1. The ones  whose eternal queen has never been seen.

**Features**
1. Their servants are on the brink of revolt.
1. There is only a handful of them left and they hide this fact.
1. They probe and control visitor and dissenters through an artificial star.
1. Their overuse of magic is the cause behind most problems in the area. They know it and prefer to hide it.
1. People who enter their paradise may never leave.
1. They coexist with and are as old as dragons.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
  
Find their equipment, and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. One of the elf's equipment is masterwork.
1. A musical instrument.
1. Nothing.
1. A spell scroll.
1. Elven trinket (valueable).
</details>
