---
layout: post
tags: monster beast arctic forest desert rocky
permalink: /monsters/boar
title: Boar
---

Wild pig. A beast.

Pigs, boars and warthogs are sturdy omnivorous scavenger with small hooves, a snout, tusks and big muscles.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** feral<br>
**Movement:** average <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

The boar has an excellent sense of smell and can be very stubborn. If an attack would reduce the boar to 0 HP, it can roll 1D6 and reduce the damage by as much.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Charge</ins>. If it has the space for it, the boar charges with its tusks (2D4). A target with STR below 5 falls prone.

<ins>Gore</ins>. The boar makes a melee attack (1D4).

<br>

---

# Giant Boar

**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as leather <br>
**Size:** large <br>
**Stats:** strong, sturdy, feral and unaware<br>
**Movement:** fast <br>
**Morale:** reckless <br>

The boar has an excellent sense of smell and can be very stubborn. If an attack would reduce the boar to 0 HP, it can roll 1D6 and reduce the damage by as much.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Charge</ins>. If it has the space for it, the boar charges with its tusks (2D6). A target with STR below 8 falls prone.

<ins>Gore</ins>. The boar makes a melee attack (1D6).
<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D6 boars or 1D4 giant boars. 2/6 chances that they are accompanied by 1D6 piglets.
1. **Lair:** A musky clearing, flattened by hooves. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Sniffing and chewing noises.
1. **Spoor:** Overturned earth under a tree.
1. **Tracks:** Flattened vegetation.
1. **Trace:** Pig tracks. 
1. **Trace:** Upturned roots.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Boar meat is delicious. Piglets can be domesticated to sniff things.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>

In local cultures, it is a symbol of ...

1. Stubbornness
1. Dirtiness
1. Abundance
1. Joy
1. Investigation
1. Sacred 
</details>
