---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid arctic forest desert jungle rocky mountain plains swamp
permalink: /monsters/ogre
title: Ogre
---

Big, ugly and fat bully with sharp teeth. An humanoid.

Imagine a hulking humanoid, with tiny eyes and a huge gut. Its sharp teeth peek out of its loose lips and it looks at you with stupid, hungry eyes.

**HD:** 3 +3HP  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** large <br>
**Stats:** strong and sturdy, yet bad at everything else. <br>
**Movement:** average <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

Ogres have a powerful digestive system that can consume everything softer than metal.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Club</ins>. The ogre makes one melee attack (1D8).

<ins>Bully</ins>. An adjacent target must make a save or take charisma damage (1D4) and be shoved prone.

<ins>Sack</ins>. The ogre makes one grapple attempt and engulfs its target in a giant burlap sack. The target is blinded.

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** roll 1D6:
  1. 1 ogre.
  2. 1 ogre
  3. 1 ogre
  4. 2 ogres, one is a warrior.
  5. 1 ogre war beast & 1D6 smaller humanoids.
  6. 1 ogre & 1D6 goons
1. **Lair:** A messy kitchen with human bones. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Heavy footsteps and a burp.
1. **Spoor:** A fire pit with a dirty skewer, still warm.
1. **Tracks:** Pretty easy: flattened vegetation and trash.
1. **Trace:** A frightened family traveling with their children disgised as packs of twigs.
1. **Trace:** A giant dirty pot.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
You find the monster's weapons and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. A bone of suspicious origin. Used for broth.
1. A human skull.
1. A skewer.
1. Pieces of a chair or stool.
1. A bag of stolen shinies. (valuable)
1. A flintstone.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 Ogre Cultures</summary>
Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The ones that live in a big castle they stole.
1. The ones that are part of a big humanoid horde invading the land. 
1. The ones that grow giant vegetables in a hidden farm.
1. The ones that live in huts at the outskirt of town.
1. The ones that run a gigantic inn.
1. The ones that are part of a local crime organisation.

**Features**
1. They are actually local babies abducted and fed by hags.
1. Their ruler has a powerful magical item that causes earthquakes.
1. They are looking for a mythical type of food.
1. The have goblin slaves that actually are the brains of their culture.
1. They are extremely rich, and live like kings.
1. They are actually pretty sweet.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Player Class</summary>
Play as an [ogre](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/fighter/ogre)!
</details>
