---
layout: post
tags: monster beast arctic desert plains mountain rocky city
permalink: /monsters/bird-hawk
title: Bird, Hawk
---

Fast predatory sky-diving bird. A beast.

Imagine a small bird with aerodynamic wings, piercing yellow eyes and feathers that alternate between brown, gray and white. The hawk is a diurnal predator.

**HD:** 0  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** tiny <br>
**Stats:** agile and dumb<br>
**Movement:** slow, fly fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

Hawks have a very good sight.

**Attacks (2/round)**

<ins>Fly-By</ins>. The hawk makes a melee attack (1 damage) and flies away. Attacks against it on its turn have disadvantage.

<ins>Talons</ins>. The hawk makes a melee attack (1 damage) against one target. If the hawk’s attack roll was 20 or above, the target is blinded for its next turn.

<br>

---

<br>

# Giant Hawk

**HD:** 2  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** agile and dumb<br>
**Movement:** average, fly fast <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

Hawks have a very good sight.

**Attacks (2/round)**

<ins>Fly-By</ins>. The hawk makes a melee attack (1D6 damage) and flies away. Attacks against it on its turn have disadvantage.

<ins>Talons</ins>. The hawk makes a melee attack (1D6 damage) against one target. If the hawk’s attack roll was 20 or above, the target is blinded for its next turn.

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 giant hawk.
1. **Lair:** A nest on a very high spire. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Cacaw!
1. **Spoor:** A small critter falls from the sky.
1. **Tracks:** Bird silhouette in the sky.
1. **Trace:** Hawk feathers. 
1. **Trace:** Distant hawk cry.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Hawk’s meat has a dry, leathery texture, but is still edible. Its feathers are prized by bowyers.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>
In local cultures the bat is a symbol of ...
 
1. Military
2. Intteligence
3. Alterness
4. Speed
5. Freedom
6. Sacred 

</details>
