---
layout: post
tags: monster aberration lesser city underdark chaos earth astral
permalink: /monsters/dretch
title: Dretch
---

Stinky trash demon. An aberration.

Imagine a slumbering and bloated hairless green monkey with a bat face. All it wants is to create the biggest pile of rotting flesh.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** small <br>
**Stats:** like a very dumb and evil chimp <br>
**Movement:** slow <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

As an aberration, the dretch *resists mind attacks* and *does not die* unless its killer succeeds a save vs fear. Additionally, it can also smell non-rotting things very well and is immune to poison.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Claw.</ins> The dretch makes two melee attacks (1D6).

<ins>Fetid Cloud.</ins> The dretch expels a putrid cloud that lightly covers the area around it, lasting 1 minute. Creatures must succeed on a saving throw against poison or be nauseated while the in the cloud.

<span class="alchemy">**Dretch Musk.** Save or be poisoned. Only lasts 10 minutes but affects anyone who smells it.</span>

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 2D8 dretches.
1. **Lair:** A large pit of filth with manes drowning in it. Save against musk. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** A horrible smell is becoming stronger. Save against musk.
1. **Spoor:** The area is recently defiled with filth.
1. **Tracks:** A fetid smell between sweat and sulfur.
1. **Trace:** A distant cry between a baby crying and a sheep.
1. **Trace:** A demonic altar made of trash.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Mutations</summary>

Your studies of the aberration has changed you in horrible, gruesome ways: A grapefruit-sized sack of gas grows on ...


1. ... one of your legs.
1. ... one of your arms. 
1. ... inside your lungs.
1. ... your chest. 
1. ... your face and might block one of your eyes (1/4).
1. roll again. You know the [spell word](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/magic-user#spell-words) *Fume* and gain one spell dice.
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
The most common and least powerful of all demons according to Jim Holloway in the [Monster Manual II](https://www.dmsguild.com/product/17005/Monster-Manual-II-1e). I wanted to keep them pretty close to the original. — SaltyGoo
</details>
