---
layout: post
tags: monster fey  desert rocky plains enchanted astral
permalink: /monsters/donestre
title: Donestre
---

Self-hating friend-eating lion-person. A fey.

Have you ever felt so miserable and unloved you could cry? This lanky, sad, wet lion-person embodies that. It could be majestic but looks miserable. It looks at you with sad saucer eyes.

**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** naive about its morals but otherwise elite <br>
**Movement:** average <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

As a fairy, the donestre *resists mundane weapons and spells* and WIS must be used for attack rolls against it. However, if it touches cold iron, it loses all these abilities and spells for a round. Additionally, donestres have a keen sense of smell and can see relatively well in the dark. Their tongue is magical, allowing them to be understood by any creature that speaks a language. It is consequently very good at lying.

Any creature hearing and understanding the donestre speak for 1 minute must save with disadvantage or be charmed for 1 hour. If both rolls are failures, the target is dominated instead. A creature succeeding its save is immune to this donestre’s words for 24h. This ability fails on targets battling the donestre.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Love Me!</ins> The donestre makes a grapple attempt, followed by a bite melee attack (1D8).

<ins>Kill Me!</ins> The donestre makes a desperate melee attack with a weapon or its claws (2D6). Until its next turn, its target has advantage on its attacks against the donestre.

<ins>Pity Me!</ins> Decapitated heads within sight start wailing. As many other targets and the donestre must save or be frightened.
<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 donestre.
1. **Lair:** A cavern with a number of enshrined severed heads. They are set in a way that evokes the doll house of a lonely kid. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Sobbing.
1. **Spoor:** A decapitated body. No signs of struggle.
1. **Tracks:**  Sobbing sounds, far away.
1. **Trace:** [Rumor] Don't trust creatures that speak your tongue.
1. **Trace:** [Rumor] Lend an ear, lose a head.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Thinks It Wants</summary>

1. A friend who will help it be accepted by the locals.
1. A gift.
1. Protection, as it is scared to sleep alone tonight.
1. Advice on the best way to befriend somebody.
1. Companionship for the road.
1. Somebody to share dinner with.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Will Actually Try To Do</summary>

1. Eat you alive.
1. Beat you to a pulp.
1. Decapitate you.
1. Feed you poison.
1. Drown you.
1. Smother you.
 
</details>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the Body</summary>

You ...(Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. A lock of hair from an innocent.
1. Jewelry from a foreign land (valuable).
1. A decapitated head.
1. A map tracing the road from this land to the next.
1. A gold tooth (mundane).

Conversing with heads collected by a donestre might give a wizard the inspiration to create a spell with the word friendship.

<span class="alchemy">**Lion Tears.** For 15 minutes, people will listen to you with their undivided attention.</span>
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
The donestre is a weird monster from the east described in the middle ages. It preys on travelers by speaking their language. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) is what inspired me. I gave them my typical fey resistances, and evocative attacks to highlight their tortured nature. — SaltyGoo
</details>
