---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass arctic desert forest rocky
permalink: /monsters/cultist
title: Cultist
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some [humanoids](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-humanoid) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. Bold abilities are passive, underlined ones are added to the attack options of the original creature. For damage, replace X with the creature's basic attack damage. — SaltyGoo* </span>

Cultists worship powerful creatures such as demons, feys and aberrations. Warlocks, witches, heretics and animists are common types of cultists. They have weird magical powers that mimic their object of worship as opposed to spells.
<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1D4 cultist & 1D10 goons
1. **Lair:** Secret hideout in the basement of a mundane building. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Mad chanting.
1. **Spoor:** A crime scene which has been ritualistically arranged.
1. **Tracks:** Scribbled occult symbols.
1. **Trace:** [rumor] A cult is spreading in the area.
1. **Trace:** Strange holiday celebrations.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>
## What the Monster Wants

1. More offerings for their patrons.
1. Recruit new members.
1. Get rare materials for an ambitious ritual.
1. Sell occult trinkets to fund their operation.
1. Murder somebody who knows too much.
1. Capture a fugitive ex-member.  
</details>

<br>

---

## Brain Cultist
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

A psychic overlord. Their bloated brain allows them to enslave the minds of the weak.

**Stats:** Has maximum HP and high intelect.

At the end of the round, after everyone has acted, target creature the overmind can see must save or be enthralled by it. All thralls are allowed a save each turn the brain cultist takes damage. If an enthralled creature is adjacent to the brain cultist, it can take one attack in its stead per round.

**Non-Combat Magic**
Scrying

<ins>Command.</ins> Target creature must save or obey a 2-words command from the brain cultist. The command must be achievable in one action.
</details>

## Dream Cultist
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>
A trickster. Half-dreaming, half-dream itself. Deeply touched by the fey, or is it drugs?

**Stats:** Is charismatic but absent.

When taking damage, the dream cultist disapear in a puff of colorful smoke, becoming invisible for the rest of the round and teleporting nearby.

**Non-Combat Magic**
Illusionism

<ins>Phantasm.</ins> Target creature takes damage (x) from an imaginary attack if it fails a save.

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> *Sleep, Faerie Fire.*
</details>

## Ghoul Cultist
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

A leader of ghouls. Some call them ghasts.

**Stats:** Has maximum HP.

All creatures infected with ghoul rabies near the cultist’s act first in initiative order and resist turn undead and cure disease attempts. 

<ins>Festering Touch.</ins> The cultist makes a melee attack (x). On a hit and until washed, all creatures infected with ghoul rabies have advantage one melee attacks against the target and they can smell it from afar.

<ins>Rabid Frenzy.</ins> The cultist makes two melee attacks (x).
</details>

## Pig Cultist
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

A brute. They worship pig demons in unspeakable rituals.

**Stats:** Has maximum HP and can make two attacks per turn.

Each creature adjacent to the cultist at the beginning of its turn must save or be poisoned for 1 turn. A creature is immune to this ability for 24h after a successful save.

<ins>Bloat.</ins> The cultist bloats one of its disciples into a grotesque shape. Provides 1D4 temporary hit points to one creature the cultist can see, but it reduces its speed to slow until they rest.
</details>

## Tiger Cultist
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

*A naked hunter with tattooed stripes, garish jewelry and menacing claws. They worship rakshasas and other evil tiger spirits in cruel rituals.*

**Stats:** Agile.

The tiger cultist is covered in stripes tatooed with unholy darkness which allow the cultist to see in the dark, meld in shadows and pounce 20'.

<ins>Shadow Claws.</ins> The cultist makes two melee attacks (1D4). The attack ignore any damage resistance.
</details>

