---
layout: post
tags: monster beast fauna
permalink: /monsters/bear
title: Bear
---

*A big furry quadrupedal omnivore that can be very dangerous if threatened.*

###### Beast. Adapted from [the Monster Manual (5e)](https://5e.tools/book.html#mm)

# Black Bear

Smaller bear that can climb on trees. Sometimes has white patterns in its fur on or near its face.

**HD:** 2  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Size:** medium &nbsp; &nbsp; **Stats:** 7 / 5 / 7 / 1 / 6 / 3    <br>
**Armor:** none <br>
**Damage:** 1D4 <br>
**Movement:** average, climb average &nbsp; &nbsp; **Morale:** brave <br>

The bear has a very good sense of smell.

**Attacks:** Each round, Each round, the bear can perform one of these actions:

<ins>Bite and Claws</ins>. The bear makes two melee attacks (x).

<ins>Bear Hug</ins>. The bear attempts to grapple the target. While grapple, the target takes damage on each of the bear’s turns (x).

<br>

---

# Brown Bear

Big bear that we are used to see.

**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Size:** large &nbsp; &nbsp; **Stats:** 9 / 5 / 8 / 1 / 6 / 3  <br>
**Armor:** none <br>
**Damage:** 1D6 <br>
**Movement:** average &nbsp; &nbsp; **Morale:** brave <br>

The bear has a very good sense of smell.

**Attacks:** Each round, Each round, the bear can perform one of these actions:

<ins>Bite and Claws</ins>. The bear makes two melee attacks (x).

<ins>Bear Hug</ins>. The bear attempts to grapple the target. While grapple, the target takes damage on each of the bear’s turns (x).

<br>

---

# Giant Bear

See [cave bear](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/bear-cave)

<br>

---

## Random Encounter

1. **Monster:** 1 bear.
1. **Lair:** A cave hidden in the landscape. 2-6 chances that there are cubs. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** The sound of heavy, animal breathing.
1. **Spoor:** Half eaten carcass of a beast.
1. **Tracks:** Bear tracks.
1. **Trace:** Fish bone. 
1. **Trace:** Claw marks.

<br>

---

## Salvaging the Body

Bear fur is very prized for warm winter clothing. Its meat is edible.

---

## Totem Table

In local cultures, it is a symbol of ...

1. Strength
1. Lazyness
1. Stars
1. Winter
1. Motherhood
1. Sacred 



