---
layout: post
tags: monster fey arctic desert rocky plains swamp city
permalink: /monsters/cadejo
title: Cadejo
---

Drunkard-tracking magical spooky mutt. A fey.

# Black Cadejo

Imagine a big, skinny, shaggy black dog. Its eyes are glowing like red candles and its feet are cloven. It smells like urine and sulfur. The black cadejo is evil.

**HD:** 2  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** dumb yet emotionally aware <br>
**Movement:** fast <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

As a fairie, the cadejo *resists mundane weapons and spells* and WIS must be used for attack rolls against it. However, if it touches cold iron, it loses all these abilities and spells for a round. Additionally, black cadejos have a keen sense of hearing and smell, allowing them to easily spot their preys. On top of that, they can see in dark. Their black fur helps them hide in the shadows. 

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Illusionism.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite.</ins> The cadejo makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Spellcasting (1)</ins>. *Charm, Detect Invisibility*. 

<ins>Witch Bolt.</ins> The cadejo releases a jolt of electricity, making a ranged attack (1D6).

<br>

---

# White Cadejo

Imagine a big, skinny, shaggy white dog. Its eyes are glowing like blue candles and its feet are cloven. It smells like urine and holy incenses. The white cadejo is good.

**HD:** 2  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** dumb yet emotionally aware <br>
**Movement:** fast <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

As a fairie, the cadejo *resists mundane weapons and spells* and WIS must be used for attack rolls against it. However, if it touches cold iron, it loses all these abilities and spells for a round. Additionally, white cadejos have a keen sense of hearing and smell, allowing them to easily spot their preys and they resist mental abilities. 

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Apotropaism.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite.</ins> The cadejo makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Spellcasting (1)</ins>. *Cure Wound, Protection from Evil, Bless*. 

<ins>Witch Bolt.</ins> The cadejo releases a jolt of electricity, making a ranged attack (1D6).

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 cadejo.
1. **Lair:** A dirt den with flowers growing up in it that only blossom at night. There is a 25% chance that 1D4 drunk specters come visit the cadejo at any night. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Smell of urine and sulfur / Smell of incense and urine.
1. **Spoor:** Trap! A hard to spot natural pit. Drunk people cannot see it.
1. **Tracks:** Pungent urine smell.
1. **Trace:** A wandering drunk who never got lost.
1. **Trace:** A wandering drunk, lost and never to be seen again (except in the spoor).
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Guide wandering drunks to their death. (black cadejo) / Guide wandering drunks to their home. (white cadejo)
1. Corral 3D20 drunken ghosts to a party.
1. Guide travelers to the closest inn or tavern.
1. Lead people away from a nearby passage to the land of the dead.
1. Guard a path, only drunks may pass.
1. Kill blissfully unaware people / Help aware people.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the Body</summary>

Cadejo fur is always oily and shaggy, but is rumored to make the wearer appear dead to undead creatures.

By fermenting cadejo fur oil in a vat, a wizard can create a strong alchohol that will inspired them to create a new spell with the word drunk.

<span class="alchemy">**Cadejo Musk.** One dose spread on the neck will render the wearer appear dead to undead creatures..</span>
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>

In local cultures it is a symbol of ...

1. Partying
1. Bliss
1. Alcohol
1. Afterlife
1. Getting lost
1. Sacred 
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
In Central American folklore, the cadejo is a goat-dog that protects or kills travelers, specifically drunkards. There's a good, white-furred one, and an evil black-furred one. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) gives it weapon immunities and magical powers. What I did was give them standard fairy resistances and a magical attack instead of the spell lightning bolt.
</details>
