---
layout: post
tags: monster beast rival
permalink: /monsters/arassas
title: Arassas
---

Acid-spitting snow lizard-cat. A beast.

A gigantic white furred lizard with black lips, cat ears and a blue tongue. The arassas is a nocturnal ambush predator, using its breath to slowly kill travelers from hypothermia.

**HD:** 6  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as leather <br>
**Size:** huge <br>
**Stats:** strong, agile, sturdy, animalistic <br>
**Movement:** average, climb average <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

The arassas is *stealthy* for its size, and is very *hard to hear and see* in an snowy landscape. Its heavy fur makes it *resistant to cold*. Its clawed, woolly paws allow it to ignore icy terrain. It also has a *keen smell* that helps it detect its preys.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Trash</ins>. The arassas makes a melee attack (1D8) against all creatures adjacent to it. Hit targets must succeed a strength save or be knocked prone.

<ins>Rake</ins>. The arassas makes two melee attacks (1D8) against one target.

<ins>Pounce</ins>. The arassas makes a running jump and lands on a target, which is allowed a dexterity save to avoid damage. On a hit, the target takes damage (2D8), is prone and grappled.

<ins>Acid Hiss</ins> (recharge 2/6). The arassas spreads a short cone with acidic spit, inflicting acid damage (2D8) to all objects and creatures. A saving throw halves the damage. 

The area and targets are covered in the liquid, which is anti-icing. Until they are washed, creatures become vulnerable to the effect of hypothermia, and any previously frozen area becomes very slippery.

---

# Young Arassas

**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as leather <br>
**Size:** large <br>
**Stats:** strong, agile, sturdy, animalistic <br>
**Movement:** average, climb average <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

The arassas is *stealthy* for its size, and is very *hard to hear and see* in an snowy landscape. Its heavy fur makes it *resistant to cold*. Its clawed, woolly paws allow it to ignore icy terrain. It also has a *keen smell* that helps it detect its preys.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Trash</ins>. The arassas makes a melee attack (1D6) against all creatures adjacent to it. Hit targets must succeed a strength save or be knocked prone.

<ins>Rake</ins>. The arassas makes two melee attacks (1D6) against one target.

<ins>Pounce</ins>. The arassas makes a running jump and lands on a target, which is allowed a dexterity save to avoid damage. On a hit, the target takes damage (2D6), is prone and grappled.

<ins>Acid Hiss</ins> (recharge 2/6). The arassas spreads acidic spit on one nearby target, inflicting acid damage (2D6) to all objects and creatures. A saving throw halves the damage. 

The target is covered in the liquid, which is anti-icing. Until they are washed, creatures become vulnerable to the effect of hypothermia, and any previously frozen area becomes very slippery.

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 arassas or 1D6 young arassas, their mother 1D4 turns away.
1. **Lair:** A big ice den with a strong acrid smell. 25% chance that there are eggs, 25% chance that there are hatchlings. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** A strange meow.
1. **Spoor:** Anti-icing spit melting holes in the ice.
1. **Tracks:**  3’ wide feline tracks.
1. **Trace:** Strange melting patterns in the snow. 
1. **Trace:** Giant claw marks in the ice.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Arassas meat tastes horrible, but is not poisonous. Its fur is very warm and its teeth can be used as weapons. More importantly, it’s bile is a prized anti-icing.

Arassas eggs are sought after, as its the only way to train one for riding.

<span class="alchemy">**Arassas Bile.** Corrosive liquid (1D6). Prevents freezing, but makes vulnerable to cold damage.</span>
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>
In local cultures the arassas is a symbol of ...

1. Discretion
1. Anger
1. Blizzards
1. Royalty
1. Strength
1. Sacred 
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
In alpine folklore, arassas, or tatzelwurms, are half-cat half-lizard creatures that can sometimes petrify with their gaze or spit poison. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) makes it a huge monster with an acidic frost breath. Building from there, I dropped the frost part (I was always annoyed that arctic creatures had cold attacks in an environment where everybody resists cold damage) and made it de-icing! My goal was to create fun interractions for adventurers wanting to collect the spit. — SaltyGoo
</details>
