---
layout: post
tags: monster construct fauna
permalink: /monsters/animus
title: Animus
---

*Vengeful, murderous household objects.*

###### Construct. Adapted from [Ravenloft](http://adnd.geoshitties.installgentoo.com/mm/animatgr.html)

Imagine any object. Any one. Some have absorbed the negative emotions surrounding them, and over time, have become sentient.

All an animus wants is to protect the sad, bitter person that involuntarily created it. In the most twisted, petty way.

The animus’s stats depend on its size : # = 4 (tiny), 6 (small), 8 (medium), 10 (large)

**HD:** X/2  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Size:** aby &nbsp; &nbsp; **Stats:**  8 / 0 / 5 / 8 / 6 / 7  <br>
**Immunities:** fatigue, poison, sleep <br>
**Armor:** as plate <br>
**Damage:** 1DX <br>
**Movement:** still &nbsp; &nbsp; **Morale:** reckless <br>

**Spellcasting:** Thaumaturgy, +# spell words

Anti-magic zones and dispels paralyze the animus.

For animi bigger than large, create each parts of it as a separate, smaller animus.

**Wicked Mind:** Any creature attempting to mentally communicate with an animus must make a saving throw or be under the effect of Dominate Person.

**Motive Force (recharge 2/6):** The animus animates itself, doing 1 action that would be realistic if it was handled by a humans. This is the only way the animus can do a physical attack (x).

**Spell Words:** The animus knows a certain amount of spell words which it can combine in pairs to create spells. You can add other words to match the nature of the object, like *fire* for an oven, *music* for a piano, or *blood* for a knife.

| ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 1. Animate  |  6. Wind  |
| 2. Dead  |  7. Fear  |
| 3. Object &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; |  8. Insect  |
| 4. Control  |  9. Giant  |
| 5. Weather  |  10. Plague  |

<br>

---

## Random Encounter

1. **Monster:** 1 animus & 1 commoner.
1. **Lair:** The house of a bitter person, half abandoned and isolated. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** “I sense a lot of hatred in this room”
1. **Spoor:** A recent victim, seemingly killed by an impossible accident.
1. **Tracks:** A bitter diary page hinting at a location.
1. **Trace:** Gossip about how everybody hates the person who lives/lived here. 
1. **Trace:** The funeral of a recent victim. 

<br>

---

## Creation Table

Creating a rug of smothering takes 2 spell dices and a carpet worth 2 [treasures](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/10/extra-rules#treasures). Roll 1D6 to know the result. Add 1 to your roll for each extra spell dice àspent.

1. You trap your own soul in the object. Your charisma becomes 0.
1. You kill the bitter person. It becomes a ghost.
1. You attract 1D6 shadows.
4-5.	The animus considers you a threat to the bitter person.
6+	The animus cannot attack you.
