---
layout: post
tags: monster undead city underdark cursed divine astral
permalink: /monsters/ghost
title: Ghost
---

Powerful spirit bound by an unfinished business. An undead.

Imagine a person frozen in their last moments, reliving the horrible emotions of their demise eternally. They are twisted in grotesque ways.

**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** purely emotional <br>
**Movement:** slow <br>
**Morale:** reckless <br>

As an undead creature, the ghost does not starve to death, breathe, sleep or tire and cant be poisoned. As an ethereal creature, it is immune to damage from a nonmagical source, as well as grapples and petrification. However, direct sunlight makes it lose all resistances and immunities. Silver weapons similarly ignore its resistances. While ethereal, the ghost can pass through anything, and it cannot be affected by physical creatures. The ghost is ethereal by default.

Ghosts can see in the dark, and in the ethereal realm and the material plane at the same time. 

A ghost can only be killed when its unfinished business is resolved. If it loses all HP and its business is still unfinished, it comes back fully healed after 10 minutes for each time it was "killed" that week.

If a creature touches the ghost's unfinished business, or is possessed and disobeys the ghost's command, the ghost leaves the ethereal realm. The triggering creature must save vs fear or lose all HP and get a Wound.

**Attacks (1/round) while ethereal***
*If somebody in the ghost's lair has found its unfinished business, the ghost can make two attacks per round instead.*

<ins>Emotion</ins>. One creature in the ghost’s lair must save vs fear or be frightened. If already frightened, it becomes depressed and exhausted. If already exhausted, it becomes enraged and must attack all visible creatures until they cant see any.

<ins>Phantasm</ins>. One creature in the ghost’s lair must save or believe it sees something it is afraid of. The illusion has the statistics of the real thing but can only affect or be seen by the target. The illusion cannot inflict more than 2D6 damage per round.

<ins>Possession</ins>. One creature in the ghost’s lair must save or be possessed by the ghost. The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the ghost ends it, or the ghost is turned or forced out by a spell. Until then, the target must obey a two word command given to it by the ghost to the best of its capacities without revealing they are possessed. While possessing, the ghost cannot use its own attacks.

<ins>Spatial Distortion</ins>. Target creature in the ghost’s lair experiences one of the following effects until next turn: all doors they open lead back to the same room in the ghost’s domain or target path or corridor becomes infinitely long.

<ins>Temperature Change</ins>. Target room in the ghost’s domain becomes extremely cold until next turn.

**Attacks (1/round) while manifested***

<ins>Telekinesis</ins>. One creature must make a save or be shoved nearby, taking damage (1D8) if hitting a hard surface.

<ins>Terrifying Abandon</ins>. The ghost makes one melee attack (1D8) with advantage. For the rest of the turn, every attack against the ghost has advantage.


<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 ghost & 1D4 [animus](/monsters/animus)
1. **Lair:**  An abandoned house. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** The temperature drops several degrees and you get goosebumps.
1. **Spoor:** A creature, numbed by terror.
1. **Tracks:** Soft cries and whispers in the wind.
1. **Trace:** A window cracks.
1. **Trace:** The lights are snuffed.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Their body to be found and buried with sacred rites.
1. Revenge on their murderer and their descendants.
1. Their discovery to be properly credited to them.
1. To live a event one last time through possession.
1. For their lover to acknowledge and forgive them.
1. Ruin the person who ruined them.  

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Summoning the Spirit</summary>

If you know the spell [Occult Consultation](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/13/occult-consultation/), you can alter it in such way for a minimum of 3 Spell Dices:

**Summon Ghost** <br>

You summon one ghost, which uses its pure dread ability on you. It will then attempt to possess one creature it deems a good vessel. if it cant, it will disappear in [dice] rounds.
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
This version of the ghost is greatly inspired by Dael Kingsmill [design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RlHom7zSWD0&ab_channel=MonarchsFactory) — SaltyGoo
</details>
