---
layout: post
tags: monster fey jungle swamp enchanted
permalink: /monsters/eloko
title: Eloko
---

Crocodile monkey guardian of the jungle. A fey.

Have you forgotten how dangerous the jungle can be? This hairless chimp-like creature with an unhinged crocodile jaw embodies that. Plants grow on it.

**HD:** 2  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** small <br>
**Stats:** much more stronger and sturdy than its size suggests<br>
**Movement:** average, swim average, climb average <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

As a fairie, the eloko *resists mundane weapons and spells* and WIS must be used for attack rolls against it. However, if it touches cold iron, it loses all these abilities and spells for a round. Additionally, biloko (the plural of eloko) can see in the dark and hold their breath for 30 minutes.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Violent Clubbing</ins> The eloko makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Bell Chime</ins> The eloko charms someone using the sound of its magical bell. A charmed target sees the eloko as a lost child. Only one person can be charmed at a time.

<ins>Swallow</ins> The eloko makes a grapple attack against a human-sized or smaller target. On a success, the target is swallowed and takes 1D6 acid damage at the start of each of its turn. An Eloko can swallow one person at a time.
<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 eloko.
1. **Lair:** A rotten, hollow tree with dried fruit bells hanging from it. A human can squeeze in it and discover it is very comfortable and smells like wet bark. There is always two exits to an eloko tree, whether through a tunnel or a different hole in the tree one exit leads to night time, while the other is day time. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Your hear the ringing of a small bell.
1. **Spoor:** The abandoned camp of somebody traveling alone with fresh blood everywhere and no signs of struggle.
1. **Tracks:** Crude bone chimes in the general direction of a river or water.
1. **Trace:** [Rumor] A local folk tale warning against going alone in the woods.
1. **Trace:** [Rumor] A strange fetish, protecting against the effect of the eloko bell.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Thinks It Wants</summary>

1. Make people fearful of strangers.
1. Find a surrogate parent, and eat it.
1. Make a friend, kill their friend’s friends.
1. Ensure that no one is out during the day.
1. Ensure that no one is out during the night.
1. Make sure that everybody is alone. 
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the Body</summary>

You ...(Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. A fish / bone / wood club.
1. An intact hunting tool.
1. Wooden jewelry offered by the locals at a shrine.
1. A protective amulet from a devoured hunter.
1. An intact eloko bell.

Conversing with heads collected by a donestre might give a wizard the inspiration to create a spell with the word *bell*.

<span class="alchemy">**Eloko Bell.** Can be used to cast charm person, and the target sees you as a small child. Each time you use the bell, roll a D10, on a roll of 1, you are sucked in the fairy dimension of the bell and somebody else who is trapped there is released.</span>
</details>

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
The eloko is a central african monster that preys on people that carelessly go into the jungle. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) is what inspired me. He had split them in two non-magical variants, but I chose to make them more fairy like and unique. — SaltyGoo
</details>
