---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass city arctic desert forest rocky plains swamp
permalink: /monsters/knight
title: Knight
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some [humanoids](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-humanoid) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. If necessary, you can adjust the damage to match the base monster's.* </span>

Knights are warriors with sworn oaths to serve a specific cause, most often their liege.<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D4 knights & 1D10 [soldiers](/monsters/soldier).
1. **Lair:** Tidy command room / tent with coats of arms and a battle map. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Distinct sound of armor-wearing steps.
1. **Spoor:** Banner planted in the ground with a recognizable coat of arm.
1. **Tracks:** Footsteps of armored boots.
1. **Trace:** An old tattered banner.
1. **Trace:** A piece of a full plate armor.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Defeat a powerful monster.
2. Woo a noble.
3. Participate in a tournament.
4. Protect a sacred site.
5. Train for battle.
6. Search for a powerful weapon.  
</details>

<br>

---


<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Generic Knight</b></summary>
**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as plate <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** higher than average<br>
**Movement:** average<br>
**Morale:** brave<br>

Allies of the knight do not flee battle before the knight allows it.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Heroic Sword</ins>. The knight makes a melee attack (1D8). It's target cannot attack another person than the knight next turn.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Astral Commander</b>. A very powerful hero who leads armies across the multiverse.</summary>
Has double maximum HP, full plate armor (3), and can attack twice on its turn, thrice if below half HP.

<ins>Chain Teleport.</ins> The knight teleports to a nearby creature’ of it and makes a melee attack (1D8). It repeats the process on new targets until it fails an attack or has no new target.

<ins>Compelling Order.</ins> The knight makes one ally make a melee attack with advantage.

<ins>Force Choke.</ins> he knight lifts one nearby creature in the air if it fails a save, inflicting crushing damage (1D6) and preventing the target from breathing. The target is stunned for a turn.

<ins>Spellcasting (4).</ins> _Plane Shift Army, Suggestion_.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Astral Knight</b>. A warrior trained to fight extradimensional foes.</summary>
Has maximum HP and chain armor (2).

<ins>Chain Teleport.</ins> The knight teleports to a nearby creature’ of it and makes a melee attack (1D8). It repeats the process on new targets until it fails an attack or has no new target.

<ins>Spellcasting (1).</ins> _Plane Shift Platoon_.
</details>


<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Gish Knight</b>. A warrior trained in arcane magic.</summary>
Has maximum HP and chain armor (2).

<ins>Spell-Blade.</ins> The knight makes a melee attack (1D8) and casts a spell.

<ins>Spellcasting (3).</ins> _Dimension Door, Magic Missile, Fire Ball, Shield, Invisibility._.
</details>
