---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid undead arctic city desert jungle rocky swamp chaos cursed
permalink: /monsters/ghoul
title: Ghoul
---

Cannibalistic people with rabies. An humanoid undead.

Imagine a humanoid with sickly skin, bare feet crusted with dirt, hands black with blood, and a long, thick tongue that stretches all the way to its navel. Its eyes are bloodshot and evil and its long, dirty nails are hardened like claws.

Drool, blood and rotten meat chunks stain this creature’s blackened lips, gum and chest. It stinks.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none<br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** agile, semi-feral<br> 
**Movement:** normal, climb normal <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

As undead creatures, ghouls do not starve to death (even if they do feel hunger), breathe, sleep or tire and cant be poisoned.

Ghouls are more clever than most people think. When they are not consumed by hunger for flesh, which is very rare, they are as eloquent as they were alive. They use their good stealth and climbing speed to ambush their preys from surprising locations.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Diseased Claw</ins>.  The ghoul makes one melee attack (1D4). On a hit, the target must save vs diseases or be paralyzed. A paralyzed target can save again at the end of each of its turns, getting free after two successes, or after 10 minutes if it fails two times, whichever comes first. If the target fails, it catches ghoul rabies.

<ins>Feral Bite</ins>. The ghoul makes one melee attack (1D6). Other creatures have advantage on their melee attacks against it until its next turn.

<ins>Rush.</ins> The ghoul attempts to shove a target. On its next turn, it will act first.

<span class="alchemy">
**Ghoul Rabies**. Disease. Save every night to add or remove a cumulative symptom. Symptom: requires to eat 1 extra ration per day. While sick, you can only eat meat. If you die sick, you become a ghoul.
</span>

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 3D4 ghouls & 1 ghoul lord.
3. **Lair:** A pit with bodies piled at the bottom, lined with occult symbols. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Sloppy chewing noises, getting closer.
4. **Spoor:** A gnawed arm, covered in numbing saliva.
5. **Tracks:** Random eaten to the marrow body parts.
6. **Trace:** A shrine to Orcus.
7. **Trace:** A broken bone, gnawed.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 High Elf Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The ones that live in cities on floating islands.
1. The ones that live in a magical fog protected towers.
1. The ones that live in oases of green  in dessicated wastelands.
1. The ones that depend on the labor of elegant constructs.
1. The ones that live under glass domes.
1. The ones  whose eternal queen has never been seen.

**Features**
1. Their servants are on the brink of revolt.
1. There is only a handful of them left and they hide this fact.
1. They probe and control visitor and dissenters through an artificial star.
1. Their overuse of magic is the cause behind most problems in the area. They know it and prefer to hide it.
1. People who enter their paradise may never leave.
1. They coexist with and are as old as dragons.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
  
Find their equipment, and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. One of the elf's equipment is masterwork.
1. A musical instrument.
1. Nothing.
1. A spell scroll.
1. Elven trinket (valueable).
</details>
