---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid faction
permalink: /monsters/calytaur
title: Calytaur
---

Pigfolk or boarfolk. An humanoid.

Imagine a humanoid covered in mud and with the face of a pig. It stinks of feces and dirt.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as worn <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** strong, sturdy and dumb. <br>
**Movement:** average <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

Calytaurs can smell in the dark as if they were seeing. Additionally, if an attack would reduce the calytaur to 0 HP, it can roll 1D6 and reduce the damage by as much out of sheer stubbornness.

**Attacks (3/round)**

<ins>Great-Axe.</ins> The calytaur makes one melee attack (1D8).

<ins>Charge.</ins> If it has the space for it, the calytaur charges with its axe (1D8 + 1). A target with STR below 8 falls prone.

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 2D6 calytaurs & ... (1D4)
    1. nothing
    1. 1 [pig cultist](https://saltygoo.github.io/monsters/cultist)
    1. 2 of them are *warriors*
    1. roll twice
1. **Lair:** Dirty human-skin tents in mud puddle. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Mad squealing and shit smell.
1. **Spoor:** A beaten down human with branches stuck in the mouth like tusks.
1. **Tracks:** Shit smell.
1. **Trace:** A ravaged house, soiled with mud and feces.
1. **Trace:** A tree soiled with mud and feces.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

You find the monster's weapons and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Wet stinking mud.
1. A twig and mud idol, mundane and worthless.
1. A fork.
1. A truffle (valuable).
1. A waterskin.
1. A twig and mud idol, demonic.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 Calytaur Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The ones for whom soiling things is a sacred ritual.
1. The ones that have this fertility cult in the forest. 
1. The ones that are anti-gods militant.
1. The ones that are well known cooks.
1. The ones that roam the wilderness in disorganized tribes.
1. The ones that avoid contact at all costs.

**Features**
1. Their leader is a half-demon and they are all its offsprings.
1. They make human ham.
1. They are trying to summon a nalfeshnee.
1. They are humans willingly transformed through a demonic ritual.
1. They steal babies to transform them into calytaurs.
1. They are obsessed with cleaning.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Player Class</summary>
Play as a [calytaur](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/specialist/pigfolk)! 
</details>

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
The original creation of [Richard J Leblanc](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/2012/01/new-monster-calytaur.html) refers to the calydonian boar of greek myths. I personaly used them more as bacchanalian hillbilly cultists pig people in my games, so it might have tainted my encounter table. I gave them a relentless ability similar to boars to avoid making them orc clones. — SaltyGoo
</details>
