---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid city desert arctic forest rocky mountain city plains  jungle sea swamp 
permalink: /monsters/human
title: Human
---

You know them. An humanoid.

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as equipped <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** average<br>
**Movement:** average <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Improvised Weapon.</ins> The human makes a melee attack (1D4 damage).

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** roll 1D6:
    1. <ins>Bandits:</ins> 1D8 [Human Bandits](/monsters/bandits)
    1. <ins>Merchants:</ins> 1D4 merchants & 1D4 [bodyguards](/monsters/soldier)
    1. <ins>Guards:</ins> 1D8 [Human Soldiers](/monsters/soldier)
    1. <ins>Commoners:</ins> 1D6 of them. Roll on the [random career](http://tenfootpolemic.blogspot.com/2014/01/200-failed-medieval-careers.html) table.
    1. <ins>Nobles:</ins> 1D4 nobles, 1 [entertainer](/monsters/entertainer) & 1D4 [knights](/monsters/knight)
    1. <ins>Rival Party:</ins> 1 [mage](/monsters/mage), 1 [soldier](/monsters/soldier), 1 [rogue](/monsters/bandit), 1 [cleric](/monsters/priest)
1. **Lair:** Roadside camp, with food cooking. 50% chance that the person doing the watch is asleep. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Voices talking.
1. **Spoor:** Somebody recently peed here.
1. **Tracks:** Foot tracks.
1. **Trace:** A sign pointing to the nearest town.
1. **Trace:** Discarded, half-eaten local fruit or meat.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

You find ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. Nothing
1. Nothing
1. A ration.
1. A [random tool](http://tenfootpolemic.blogspot.com/2014/01/200-failed-medieval-careers.html)
1. A few gold coins (mundane)
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 Human Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The ones that live in fortified cities protected by a feudal lord.
1. The ones that are deeply religious and god fearing.
1. The ones that are nomadic, traveling the land in their wagons.
1. The ones that value gold above all else in mercantile oligarchies.
1. The ones that are outlaws.
1. The ones that libe in tribal villages.

**Features**
1. Their community is divided in two factions that hate each other and wage a covert war.
1. Their community is plagued by secret demon cults.
1. Their leader has been abducted by (1D4): 1, the fey; 2, a rival faction; 3, a dragon; 4, bandits.
1. They are famished. Impoverished by an occupying army.
1. A powerful wizard lives among them.
1. They are at war.
</details>
