---
layout: post
tags: monster aberration enemy
permalink: /monsters/cloaker
title: Cloaker
---

*Evil manta rays that hide as cloaks and have fear powers. Aberration.*

<span class="alchemy"> *There was always a certain dissonance for me about a monster whose gimmick is looking like a cloak being so strong! The fact that there is supposed to be whole civilizations of evil cloak monsters is hilarious and amazing to me. To reflect that, use the NPC class templates on some cloaker (that's why I havent converted the cloaker lord). — SaltyGoo* </span>

Imagine a leathery manta ray with a barbed tail and a noseless face that looks like a human with shark teeth. Its wings are shredded like an old raincoat, and what seems like buttons on its back are actually two parallel rows of dark eyes.

It speaks in low moans on a frequency barely audible to human that give an uncomfortable feeling in the nape.

They are actually intelligent and civilized creatures that whose evil empires are hidden in the darkest recesses of the world.

**HD:** 4  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Size:** large &nbsp; &nbsp; **Stats:** 8 / 7 / 6 / 6 / 6 / 7 <br>
**Resistances:** mind <br>
**Armor:** none <br>
**Damage:** 1D6 <br>
**Movement:** slow, fly average &nbsp; &nbsp; **Morale:** brave <br>

Cloakers are creatures of darkness: they can see in the dark, make no sound when they fly, and are thus very stealthy. Bright light gives them disadvantage on all their attack rolls. While immobile, they are virtually indistinguishable from a normal leather cloak.

**Aberration:** To kill an aberration, one must succeed on a save vs. fear. On a failure, it survives with 1 HP.

**Aberrant Quickness** (recharge 2/6): The choker can take a second action on its turn. 

**Phonophobia:** If it hears a loud noise, the choker must save against fear.

**Attacks:**  Each round, the cloaker can perform two of these actions:

<ins>Engulf.</ins> The cloaker makes a melee attack (x) and attaches itself to a target. While attached, it has advantage on all attacks against the target and half of the damage the cloaker takes (except psychic) is transferred to the target instead. A creature can attempt to detach the cloaker.

<ins>Tail Slash.</ins> The cloaker makes a melee attack (x) against two adjacent targets.

<ins>Moan.</ins> Every creature that can hear the cloaker must save or become frightened for one turn.

<ins>Distort Reality (recharge 2/6).</ins> The cloaker makes an illusory copy of itself that follows all its movement. An odd attack roll will hit the copy of the cloaker instead of the real one. The illusions disappear if in bright light.

<br>

---

## Random Encounter

1. **Monster:** 1D4 cloakers & 1 cloaker mind overlord (*cultist*).
1. **Lair:** Strange shapeless structure hanging from the ceiling. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Low frequency moan sends shivers down your spine.
1. **Spoor:** Trap! A fleshy stalatite sending fear waves when it detects movement.
1. **Tracks:** Deep moans echoing.
1. **Trace:** [rumor] Tou have to wear a soundproof helmet in these tunnels.
1. **Trace:** A big leathery cloak.

<br>

---

## Mutation

Your studies of the aberration has changed you in horrible, gruesome ways: Your skin grows loose and leathery and ...

1. ... your weight doubles when wet.
1. ... you can glide instead of falling.
1. ... you are indistinguishable from a leather cloak when not moving. 
1. ... your voice is barely audible but carries far.
1. ... you can attach yourself to another body.
1. ... roll again. You know the spell word Whisper and gain one spell dice.
