---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass arctic
permalink: /monsters/warrior
title: Warrior
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some [humanoids](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-humanoid) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. Underlined abilities are added to the attack options of the original creature. For damage, replace X with the creature's basic attack damage. — SaltyGoo* </span>

Warriors are fighters that operate outside of the rigid structures of armies. Whether they are caste-members of tribes or street-trained brutes, they are characterised in a singular power to become impossible to ignore on the battlefield.
<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 3D6 warriors & 1 [shaman](https://saltygoo.github.io/monster/shaman)
1. **Lair:** Recently made war camp. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** War chants.
1. **Spoor:** An especially fierce and violent battle-site.
1. **Tracks:** Heads on spikes.
1. **Trace:** War horn.
1. **Trace:** Broken rudimentary weapon.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Conquer the area.
1. Trade goods.
1. Hunt a beast.
1. Join a horde.
1. Go back home.
1. Protect their territory.    
</details>

<br>

---

# Paintsworn Warrior (Speed)
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

A painted warrior possessed by the raging spirit of vengeance that protects the tribe.

**Stats:** Movement becomes fast.

When the warrior attacks a target in melee, it can either make a another melee attack (1D4) or dash nearby. The same applies to each of the warrior's ally attacking a creature engaged in melee with the warrior.
</details>

# Paintsworn Warrior (Fury)
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

A painted warrior possessed by the raging spirit of vengeance that protects the tribe.

**Stats:** Strong.

Whenever the warrior takes damage, increase its damage dices by one size.

<ins>Consuming Fury.</ins> The warrior takes 1D4 damage, then makes two melee attacks (1D4).
</details>

# Paintsworn Warrior (Terror)
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

A painted warrior possessed by the raging spirit of vengeance that protects the tribe.

**Stats:** Unchanged.

The warrior is immune to fear.

<ins>Terrorizing Scream.</ins> The warrior makes a melee attack (X) and screams. The four closest creatures must save or be frightened.
</details>
