---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid city arctic desert plains jungle mountain rocky 
permalink: /monsters/ettin
title: Ettin
---

Two-headed giant. A humanoid.

Imagine a two-headed giant with exaggerated features. The two heads are different from each other and seem to be bickering.

**HD:** 4 + 4HP  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as leather <br>
**Size:** large <br>
**Stats:** very strong and sturdy, yet unfocused and clumsy. <br>
**Movement:** average <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

The ettin’s two heads makes it very alert to danger. In fact, it never fully sleeps: one of its heads is always awake.

Additionally the ettin counts as two separate targets for single-target non-damaging spells.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Double Vision.</ins> The ettin makes two melee attacks (1D8) on different targets.

<ins>Wake.</ins> The ettin attempts a saving throw to get rid of a magical effect.

<ins>Two Prizes</ins> The ettin makes two grapple attempts on two different targets.
<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 ettin & 1D6 orcs.
1. **Lair:** A big cave marked with Demogorgon symbols. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Two deep voices arguing.
1. **Spoor:** A carcass flattened by giant bludgeoning and slashing weapons.
1. **Tracks:** A trail of smashed things with giant footprints.
1. **Trace:** Two piles of chewed bones and leather.
1. **Trace:** Orc shrine to Demogorgon.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

You find the monster's two chained weapons and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Body paint.
1. Two human heads sown together.
1. A bag of silver (Valuable)
1. A gourd of grog.
1. An orcish shield.
1. Strange musical instrument with two pipes.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>1D6 What Each Heads Wants</summary>
1. Smash things.
1. Make friends.
1. Eat things.
1. Be the second coming of Demogorgon.
1. Sing an opera.
1. Kill its other head.  
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 Ettin Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The ones that live with the orcish horde.
1. The ones that are worshiped and fed by followers of demogorgon.
1. The ones that ask for a toll on the local high road.
1. The ones that are the bodyguards of the local noble.
1. The ones that are pets of the fey.
1. The ones who are actually very intelligent and run a local academy.

**Features**
1. They are orcs “blessed” by demogorgon.
1. They are two people “blessed” by the fey.
1. They are manipulated by a meek creature.
1. They creature marvelous, maddening operatic duets.
1. They crave for human flesh.
1. If they would stop bickering, they would be extremely intelligent.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Player Class</summary>
Play as a [Ettin](/class/fighter/ettin)!
</details>

