---
layout: post
tags: monster beast  desert forest rocky jungle mountain plains swamp city underdark
permalink: /monsters/bat
title: Bat
---

Flying mouse-like creatures with leathery arm-wings. A beast.

Bats are nocturnal insectivores that nest in dark spaces.

**HD:** 0  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** tiny <br>
**Stats:** agile but weak and feral<br>
**Movement:** slow, fly fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

Bats have a very keen hearing, allowing them to easily spot their preys and predators in the dark: as long as they can hear, they can detect invisible creatures.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite</ins>. The bat makes a melee attack. If you have been bitten by a bat, roll a D10 before you rest. On a roll of one you have caught bat flu.

<span class="alchemy">**Bat Flu**. Disease. Symptom: fatigue. Save every night to add or remove a cumulative symptom. Spreads through contact and breathing. </span>

<br>

---

# Bat Swarm

**HD:** 0 +3D4HP  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** agile and alert but weak and feral<br>
**Movement:** slow, fly fast <br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

Bats have a very keen hearing, allowing them to easily spot their preys and predators in the dark: as long as they can hear, they can detect invisible creatures. 

In a swarm, Bats are immune to being grappled or attacked by single target spells, and resist mind and weapon damage. However, they take double damage from area of effect attacks.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bites.</ins> The Bat Swarm makes a melee attack (1) with reach using its HP as its attack stat. If you have been bitten by a bat, roll a D10 before you rest. On a roll of one you have caught bat flu.
<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1D4 bat swarms.
1. **Lair:** A small opening leading to a dark cave. If its the day, 1D10 swarms are sleeping. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** High pitched bat noises, very close.
1. **Spoor:** 1D10 bats flying around.
1. **Tracks:** High pitched bat noises in the night.
1. **Trace:** An object soiled by bat guano.
1. **Trace:** A single bat, sleeping.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
There is not much one can retrieve from a bat. Even though their meat is edible, there is a 10% chance that a bat carries the highly contagious bat flu.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>
In local cultures the bat is a symbol of ...

1. Dusk
1. Vampires
1. Bad Luck
1. Medicine
1. Fear
1. Sacred 
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
An essential staple. Adapted from [the MonsterManual (5e)](https://5e.tools/book.html#mm). I added a chance for bats to carry diseases, because this is truely the most terrifying thing bats do in real life.
</details>
