---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass city arctic desert forest rocky jungle  mountain plains swamp sea
permalink: /monsters/bandits
title: Bandits
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some [humanoids](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-humanoid) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. If necessary, you can adjust the damage to match the base monster's.* </span>

Bandits are outlaws or goons that operate outside of the structure of an army and the culture of a tribe. They can be found anywhere there are people.
<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 3D4 bandits
1. **Lair:** Shady alley, boat or camp. Trapped. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Overhearing a bad insult about the PC.
1. **Spoor:** Recently looted travelling merchant or scholar.
1. **Tracks:** Littering of bottles and other trash.
1. **Trace:** Guard patrol.
1. **Trace:** Robbed merchant.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Cause some trouble!
1. Sell stolen goods.
1. Kill you.
1. Traffic so illicit goods.
1. Rob traveler.
1. Party.  
</details>

<br>

---

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Bandit</b>. A generic goon</summary>
Has a ranged bow attack (1D6) and a leather armor (1).
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Bandit Leader</b>. A dangerous fighter with two weapons</summary>
Has maximum HP, a chainmail armor (2), and is good at dodging attacks. Once per turn, it can parry a melee attack, reducing incoming damage by 1D6.

<ins>Two-Weapon Attack.</ins> The bandit makes a melee attack (1D6) and another one with a dagger (1D4).
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Mob Boss</b>. A cowardly boss that relies on its goons</summary>
Has maximum HP, and can make two of its attacks per turn. Once per turn, it can redirect damage to an adjacent ally.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Outlaw</b>. A more vicious bandit</summary>
Has a chainmail armor (2).

<ins>Poisoned Arrow.</ins> The bandit makes a ranged attack (1D6). On a hit, the target must save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) until it rests.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Simpleton</b>. A stupid brute</summary>
Has max HP, no ranged attacks and advantage on grapple rolls and attack rolls against targets grappled by it.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Thug</b>. Ganging goons</summary>
Has a leather armor (1) and can make two melee attacks per round (1D4) against targets flanked by allies.
</details>
