---
layout: post
tags: monster humanoid celestial boss
permalink: /monsters/cambion
title: Cambion
---

Half devil, half humanoid. Handsome, frightening, powerful. A humanoid & a celestial being.

Imagine the offspring of a humanoid and a devil. More grandiose than its mortal parent, with goat horns, bat wings and a hot, reddish skin.

**HD:** 5  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** plate <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** strong, sturdy, intelligent and charismatic <br>
**Movement:** average, fly fast <br>
**Morale:** reckless <br>

As a celestial being, the cambion resists everything and is immune to curses. Additionnally, the cambion is talented in all social and roguish skills and can see in the dark. Contrary to their divine parents, they can stay in the material world without issue. Most cambions own at least one magic item.

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Diabolism, Conjuration, Enchantment

**Attacks (2/round)**

<ins>Flaming Spear.</ins> The cambion makes a melee attack (1D6), which inflicts both physical and fire damage.

<ins>Fire Bolt.</ins> The cambion makes a ranged attack (1D6).

<ins>Charm.</ins> A creature that can see the eyes of the cambion must save or be dominated for 1 day. It can save again if it will take damage. A creature that succeeds its save is immune to this ability for 24h.

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> *Alter Self, Command, Detect Magic, Plane Shift*

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 cambion & 1D6 [cultists](/monster/cultist) & 1D10 goons & 1D2 1HD [imps](/monster/imp).
1. **Lair:** A throne room with pentagrams on the floor and torture equipments. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** Temperature rises slightly and evil laughter can be heard.
1. **Spoor:** The tortured body of a ritually sacrificed humanoid.
1. **Tracks:** Faint sulfur smell.
1. **Trace:** Infernal cultists in the open.
1. **Trace:** Tales of a succubus / incubus hiding in the area.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

You find the monster's weapons and ... (Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. The name of a prominent cultist hiding in a community the PC know.
1. Ostentatious jewelry ([valuable](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#treasures))
1. A scroll of a spell from the [diabolism](https://saltygoo.github.io/spells/#diabolism) school.
1. An infernal trinket used to contact a [devil](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-celestial).
1. A pouch of drugs.
1. An ornate, rare, horrible piece of jewelry ([treasure](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#treasures)).
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2D6 Cambion Cultures</summary>

Combine the result of both tables to get the broad lines of this humanoid culture in this part of the world.

**Cultures**
1. The one who thinks it is destined to rule the world.
1. The one who thinks it should be worshiped like a god. 
1. The one who wants to be reunited with its parent in hell.
1. The one who wants to lead a crusade against the abyss.
1. The one who wants to lead a crusade against the gods.
1. The one who forges powerful weapons.

**Features**
1. It is overconfident.
1. It is delusional.
1. It is always a step ahead of you.
1. It is a decoy, the true mastermind is a meek humanoid.
1. It is hedonistic to a fault.
1. It is lazy.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Player Class</summary>
Play as a [tiefling](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/magic-user/tiefling)!
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Celestial Pact</summary>

Evil celestials give the reward and the quest at the same time, then try to make accomplishing the quest impossible within the decided time frame. Good celestials give a quest first and the reward upon completion. Cambions cannot bargain your soul: they just try to act like devils.

**Reward:**

1. The opportunity to make a pact with an actual devil.
1. A Treasure.
1. Help in finding information you seek.
1. A favor.
1. Employment in the cambion's gang.
1. A valuable each.

**Quest:**

1. You must kill some paladin that is hunting the cambion.
1. You must open a gate so that the cambion gang can take over a place of power.
1. You must retrieve a spell book.
1. You must supply six humanoid sacrifices.
1. You must escort a cultist out of town.
1. You must free some cultists from jail.
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
In demonology, a cambion is the offspring of a woman and an incubus. DnD follows the theme and makes them equally proficient rogue, figther and thieves. This adaptation is based on the DnD 5th edition version, which I think managed to synthetise the bloated 2e one into a functional monster. — SaltyGoo
</details>
