---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass arctic desert rocky
permalink: /monsters/war-beast
title: War Beast
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some large or bigger [beasts](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-beast) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. Underlined abilities are added to the attack options of the original creature. For damage, replace X with the creature's basic attack damage. — SaltyGoo* </span>

Humanoids have found many ways to use hulking beasts for war. War beasts have powers that support smaller, weaker creatures in combat situations like sieges.<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 war beasts & 1D6 [soldiers](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-soldier) or [warriors](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-warrior).
1. **Lair:** A big corral with ominous chains anchered to a pole. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** War drums and beast screams.
1. **Spoor:** Trampled creature.
1. **Tracks:** Sound of war drums.
1. **Trace:** A lone hunter looking for cubs to train into war beasts.
1. **Trace:** Trampled house.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Loot</summary>

Check on the original beasts stats.
</details>

<br>

---

# Battering Ram
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

The beast is equipped with an armored ramming device designed to destroy doors.

**Stats:** armor at least as chain.

<ins>Bash.</ins> The war beast makes an attack with disadvantage (2X), on a hit, the target is pushed probe. Objects take double damage from this attack.

<ins>Charge.</ins> The war beast pushes all creatures in its path. If they fail a save, they fall prone.
</details>

# Bolt Launcher
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

The beast is equipped with a small ballista. If the war beast does not have hands, a smaller creature is handling it.

**Stats:** unchanged.

<ins>Bolt Launch.</ins> The war beast makes a ranged attack against a target (x), it ignores armor. The war beast can then make a shove maneuvre on a adjacent target.
</details>


# Chain Brute
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

Weighted chains are attached to the war beast to cause maximum havok when it moves. When it makes a melee attack, up to two other nearby targets must save or fall prone.

**Stats:** unchanged.
</details>

# Howdah
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Features</summary>

The war beast is topped with a platform from which creatures can attack safely.

**Stats:** unchanged.

Up to 4 creatures two sizes smaller than the beast can stand on top of it. They have advantage in dodging ranged attacks. If the war beast is slain, all the creatures on the howdah fall prone.
</details>

