---
layout: post
tags: monster beast  forest rocky jungle swamp city
permalink: /monsters/bat-ahool
title: Bat, Ahool
---

Giant clawed bat with a terrifying howl. A beast.

Imagine a wolf’s howl mixed with a human’s scream. That is the sound of the Ahool, a bat with a wingspan larger than you and dark-gray fur. As it moves, you might see light reflect on its razor sharp fangs and claws.

**HD:** 2  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** agile and dumb<br>
**Movement:** average, fly fast <br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

Bats have a very keen hearing, allowing them to easily spot their preys and predators in the dark: as long as they can hear, they can detect invisible creatures. Ahools are exceptionally stealthy.

**Attacks (2/round)**

<ins>Bite</ins>. The ahool makes a melee attack with disadvantage (2D4). 

<ins>Claws</ins>. The ahool makes a melee attack (1D4). 

<ins>Unsettling Howl</ins>. Each creature that can clearly hear the ahool is deafened and must save or be stunned for 1 turn.

<br>

---

<br> 

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 ahool.
1. **Lair:** A very large and hollow dead tree. <br>	&nbsp; OR <br>	**Omen:** The very unsettling howl of the ahool (see ability).
1. **Spoor:** A creature crying for help, disappearing just before being seen.
1. **Tracks:** Echoes of frightening human-wolf howls.
1. **Trace:** An old carcass, hanging from a treetop. 
1. **Trace:** A strange dog howl in the night.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Ahool fur is dark gray and very good as a camouflage during nighttime. You would still need the skin of two of them to make an outfit. Otherwise, the ahool is comestible if leathery.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>
In local cultures the bat is a symbol of ...

1. Night
1. Disappearances
1. Assassins
1. Dogs
1. Fear
1. Sacred 
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
The ahool is a Javanese cryptid described as a giant bat with a terrifying howl. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) is true to the myth and I simply adapted it to the GLoG. — SaltyGoo
</details>

