---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass city arctic desert forest plains jungle mountain rocky swamp magical elemental astral
permalink: /monsters/wizard
title: Wizard
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some [humanoids](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-humanoid) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. If necessary, you can adjust the damage to match the base monster's.* </span>

Wizards are spellcasters that study the mystical forces of the world to harness them.<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 wizard and ...
  1. 1 [construct](/list/monsters-construct).
  1. 1 [elemental](/list/monsters-elemental).
  1. 1D4 [goons](/monsters/bandits) or [undead](/list/monsters-undead) minions.
  1. nothing.
1. **Lair:** A well equipped laboratory. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Arcane sparks preceded by a quick incantation.
1. **Spoor:** A creature, incapacitated by a spell.
1. **Tracks:** “Spells have been cast here.”
1. **Trace:** A treaty on arcane magic.
1. **Trace:** A strange contraption, not working.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Extremely rare ingredients.
1. Study the behavior of a supernatural creature.
1. Be left alone to study.
1. A magical item.
1. The same thing as you.
1. Escape this dimension.  
</details>

<br>

---


<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Generic Wizard</b></summary>
**HD:** 3  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** highly intelligent<br>
**Movement:** average<br>
**Morale:** coward<br>

**Non-Combat Magic:** Thaumaturgy, Scrying

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Magic Missile</ins>. The wizard inflicts 1D4+1 damage to two targets.

<ins>Spellcasting (4).</ins> _Call Lightning, Polymorph, Shield, Invisibility_.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>War Wizard</b>. A wizard employed by an army.</summary>
When casting a spell with an area of effect, allies of the wizard are immune to it.

**Non-Combat Magic:** Pyromancy, Metalomancy

<ins>Fire Bolt.</ins> The wizard makes a ranged fire attack (1D8).

<ins>Spellcasting (4).</ins> _Fireball, Fly, Fog Cloud, Shield, Thunderwave._.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>High Mage</b>. A wizard practicing an higher form of magic.</summary>
When casting a spell all nearby allies that can cast the spell can cast it for free at its weakest version.

**Non-Combat Magic:** Spellshaping, Divination

<ins>Energy Bolt.</ins> The wizard makes a ranged attack (2D4) that cannot be resisted.

<ins>Spellcasting (4).</ins> _Counterspell, Dispel Magic, Force Ball, Teleport, Wall of Force_.
</details>


<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Spelljammer Captain</b>. A wizard piloting interdimensional ships.</summary>
Has max HP.

**Non-Combat Magic:** Divination, Teleportation, Atromancy.

<ins>Thunderstaff.</ins> The wizard makes a melee electrical attack with reach (1D6)

<ins>Spellcasting (4).</ins> _Dimension Door, Minute Meteors, Sending, Shield, Astral Wind_.
</details>


